this frittata recipe is sponsored by
Skillshare an amazing website where you
can learn any skill imaginable more than
25,000 courses to choose from for less
than $10 a month and the first 500 of
you who sign up with my link in the
description will get a two-month trial
for free I would argue the frittata is
the perfect egg dish it is so good so
quick so versatile so cheap and unlike
most other great egg dishes a frittata
requires virtually zero skill to make I
grab my 10-inch nonstick skillet throw
in a little olive oil and get it heating
on medium anything can go into frittata
but I usually start by slicing up one or
two shallots the layers are super thin
so they cook really fast
by getting those in first before I do
anything else I'm giving them time to
caramelize and go sweet that gets you a
flavour in the finished ratata that's
very reminiscent of a Spanish omelet if
you've ever had one of those now I'm
grabbing like three slices of prosciutto
any thin meat will work bacon pancetta
salami I think it's easier to cut if you
roll it up little thin slices or bits of
anything or all you need for a frittata
as long as it's all basically cooked by
the time you pour the eggs in I like to
give them meat some time to get crispy
in the pan ratata is also great for
absorbing leftovers this is just some
leftover steamed broccoli I've got I'm
chopping it up into little bits but
since it's already cooked I won't add it
until right before I put in the eggs
same deal with this dill you could use
any fresh herb but you probably want to
put it in right before the egg so it
doesn't get overcooked and go Brown my
basic frittata formula is some kind of
onion some kind of cured pork product
and some kind of green vegetable and
then some kind of fresh herb all right
eggs these are these beautiful cage free
eggs I got from students at berry
College here in Georgia the chickens
they raise eat a natural forage diet
that results in super golden yellow
yolks I figured two or three eggs per
person I'm doing 6 total and I like a
glug of milk or cream if I have cream
around I think that gets you a softer
texture some people think it makes eggs
kind of slimy makes the water separate
out of the proteins I think that only
happens if you overcook them I'm lightly
beating that with a whisk you could use
a fork I actually don't like a totally
homogenous texture I like to see streaks
of yolk and white in the finished
frittata I'm grinding in some pepper but
I don't think I need anymore
salt the prosciutto is salty and so is
the cheese yes there's going to be
cheese when I'm almost ready to pour him
the eggs I'll turn on my ovens broiler
Brits would call that a grill I'm
turning it on the low setting I might
turn it up too high later but it's good
to be conservative with rollers all
right any cheese could work but I'm
gonna use this smoked gouda that I also
got from students at Barry College they
run their own dairy up there with these
beautiful Jersey cows that cheese is
crazy creamy
I'm just grating up an ounce or two of
that I put like half of the cheese into
the eggs and then I saved the rest to
sprinkle on top all right everything is
ready my prosciutto is crispy my
shallots are caramelized I'll throw in
the broccoli and the dill and just get
everything mixed up note that I've not
measured a damn thing I think you can't
go wrong with a frittata if the egg
mixture and the solid ingredient mixture
are roughly equal in volume all right
time to pour the eggs in then I'll stir
it with my silicone spatula this makes
sure that the ingredients are all evenly
distributed and it helps to cook the
eggs a little faster and more evenly now
I'm just scraping down the sides rest of
the cheese gets sprinkled on top that'll
Brown really nice under the broiler and
under the broiler it goes some people
bake their frittata I like a really nice
Brown top so I cook it the entire way
under the broiler the only variable is
if and when I turn the broiler from its
low setting to its high setting there is
no big mystery about when it's done it's
done when the eggs look solid when they
don't seem to be sloshing around if you
give the pan a little shake this was
looking almost done after like two
minutes and it wasn't as brown as I
wanted so I turned the broiler on high
a minute later here it is that top will
visibly puff up a bit when it's done and
if you're still not sure you can just
touch it it should be soft but bouncy if
it's still liquid inside it'll feel like
it it'll feel squishy like a water
balloon let it cool down and solidify
for a few minutes before you take it out
a good way of checking whether or not
it's stuck to the pan and indeed to
release it from the pan if it has stuck
is just to shake it back and forth like
this with a nonstick pan you can just
kind of shimmy shake it out but if
you're not feeling secure about that you
can grab a plate
turn it out onto the plate put a board
or another plate on top and flip kind of
looks like a pizza and like a pizza I
think it's best when it's thoroughly
rested Luke
warm even just cut it into wedges if you
can get it together to make a nice side
salad with this that's a very good
flavor and texture contrast but honestly
this is such a perfect all-in-one meal
as it is I honestly don't know why I
stress myself out by trying to make
perfect French style omelettes when this
is easily just as good and requires
basically no technique it may be the
perfect weeknight home-cooked meal
thanks again to Skillshare for
sponsoring this video new skills can
open up all kinds of possibilities for
you from your career to your dinner : so
has this great skill share course on how
to make a Spanish omelette which is way
harder than a frittata believe me I have
tried
there's also courses for learning
basically everything else I'm doing
right now from shooting and editing
video to growing your YouTube channel
and honestly if you want to learn to
edit in Adobe Premiere like I do
jeordy Vanda puts course is the gold
standard it's not just like watching a
tutorial with him skill share is
interactive so in between two lessons I
might ask you to color correct the clip
and then come back to the class and
because you watch my channel you can try
Skillshare now for free first 500 folks
who sign up using my link in the
description will get a two-month trial
hey look you can even learn how to raise
backyard chickens so you can get happy
eggs like the ones I got from these
beautiful ladies
[Applause]
[Laughter]